March 5, 2018

Dear Tesla hiring manager,

Your Prototype Engineering & Fabrication Internship posting found on the Tesla "Careers" website interests me. A background on extra-curricular competition teams has given me extensive experience in 3D CAD, design for manufacture, and rapid prototyping, which would allow me to make meaningful contributions on your product design team.

I taught myself to use Dassault Solidworks as a seventh grader on a high school FIRST robotics team that had never used CAD before. Over the next six years, I improved my ability to rapidly ideate and design for ease of manufacture. Working with professional machine shops honed my ability to create unambiguous engineering drawings while the short, six-week build period taught me efficient design. In particular, I became particularly adept in both designing for and manufacturing with our in-house manual mill, manual lathe, and Haas CNC router. By my senior year, each night I would design a prototype to solve a problem or test an idea, begin manufacturing on our CNC router at the next team meeting, and have a functioning concept by the meeting’s conclusion. My skills would be invaluable to your team, where I could help create easy-to-manufature proofs of concept.

My work at Georgia Tech has cemented my desire to use engineering principles to solve challenging problems. After I took Numerical Methods at GT, I wrote a Matlab script to create at optimal camshaft profile for my FSAE team’s car. In the past year, I lead a team of six students in designing and manufacturing a three pound battlebot. The team extensively used FEA to optimize the chassis and weapon performance for their weight. I believe I would thrive on your collaborative, multi-disciplinary team where I would be challenged on a daily basis.

Attached you will find my resume; it contains further descriptions of my work on Georgia Tech’s FSAE and robotics teams and my high school robotics team. I would be happy to answer further questions by email at michael.bick@gatech.edu.

Sincerely,
Michael Bick
